<section>
  <title>Setting Base Clearcase connection information.</title>
  <para>
    Using base Clearcase (i.e., non-UCM) is supported in two different
    manners: using snapshot views, or using dynamic views. In either
    case, much of the same configuration applies to both. This section
    will detail the configuration options available to you in either
    case.
  </para>
  <section>
    <title>Base Clearcase connection information.</title>
    <para>
      The information presented in this section applies to either
      snapshot or dynamic views.
    </para>
    <para>
      You should have Clearcase client installed on the build machine.
      Also you should make sure that the account running your
      application server or servlet container is able to access your
      Clearcase server and that it can make views. Here is the list of
      properties for this adaptor:
      <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>View tag</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              The name of the Clearcase view tag to use. If a view by
              this name does not already exist, it will be created for
              you. If you do not specify this, luntbuild will compute a
              view tag for you comprised of the luntbuild install
              location, project name, etc.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>View stgloc name</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Name of the Clearcase server-side view storage location
              which will be used as
              <code>-stgloc</code>
              option when creating Clearcase view for the current
              project. Either this property or "Explicit path for view
              storage" property should be specified.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>View storage path</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Explicit path for view storage. This property is required
              only when the "Clearcase view stgloc name" property is
              empty. In the case of snapshot views, if this is specified
              it will be used as -vws option instead of using the
              -stgloc option to create Clearcase view. In the case of
              dynamic views, this is the path to the view storage.
            </para>
            <note>
              <para>
                This value should be a writable UNC path on Windows
                platform.
              </para>
            </note>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Config spec</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Config spec used by Luntbuild to create Clearcase snapshot
              view for a build.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Modification detection config</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              This property will take effect if there are some LATEST
              versions from some branch to fetch in the above config
              spec. It is used by Luntbuild to determine, if there are
              any changes in the repository since the last build. This
              property consists of multiple entries, where each entry is
              of the format &quot;&lt;path&gt;[:&lt;branch&gt;]&quot;.
              &lt;path&gt; is a path inside a VOB, which should be
              visible by the above config spec. Luntbuild will lookup
              any changes in any branch inside this path recursively, or
              it will lookup changes in the specified branch, if
              &lt;branch&gt; is specified. Multiple entries are
              separated by ";" or line terminator.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Options for mkview command</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              You may optionally specify extra options for the cleartool
              mkview sub command used by Luntbuild to create related
              Clearcase view for the current project. Options that can
              be specified here are restricted to -tmode, -ptime, and
              -cachesize. For example you can specify "-tmode insert_cr"
              to use Windows end of line text mode.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Cleartool executable path</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              The directory path, where your cleartool executable file
              resides in. It should be specified here, if it does not
              exist in the system path.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>History format parameters</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              The revision log for each build is generated via the
              <code>lshistory</code>
              cleartool subcommand. Luntbuild includes
              <code>date:%d user:%u action:%e %n\\n</code>
              already. If you would like to append additional
              information, then you may enter additional format
              parameters here (e.g.,
              <code>%c</code>
              to retrieve file checkin comments). See the Clearcase man
              pages on
              <code>fmt_ccase</code>
              for more information.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Quiet period</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Number of seconds the current VCS should be quiet (without
              checkins) before Luntbuild decides to check out the code
              of this VCS for a build. This is used to avoid checking
              out code in the middle of some other checkins. This
              property is optional. When left empty, quiet period will
              not be used before checking out code to build.
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
      </variablelist>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section>
    <title>Dynamic Clearcase connection information</title>
    <para>
      In addition to the basic Clearcase connection information, the
      following configuration options are available when using dynamic
      views.
      <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Mvfs path</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              This is the root path from which all Clearcase views are
              accessible. On Windows, for example, this defaults to
              <code>M:\\</code>
              .
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
          <term>Project path</term>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Path relative to the view root in which the desired
              sources can be found. This is primarily useful for
              constraining the scope of the history gathering. If left
              blank, then the view root direcotry will serve as the
              directory from which history is gathered. Secondarily, it
              is also useful for determining what the Clearcase working
              directory should be (see below).
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
      </variablelist>
    </para>
    <para>
      It's worth noting that making use Dynamic Clearcase probably
      requires some additional configuration within other tabs. Because
      your Clearcase elements are available within the confines of your
      dynamic view and are not physically copied to your local storage,
      the Schedule working directory computed on your behalf will not
      point to your Clearcase view directory. That said, it is unwise to
      set your Schedule's working directory to your Clearcase view
      directory since that directory may not be available for
      luntbuild's use. Instead, you should set the Builder's working
      directory to the desired location. If you explicitly set your view
      tag, then this is a simple exercise of using your Mvfs Path
      compined with your view tag. For example, with a view tag of
      <code>luntbuild</code>
      and an Mvfs path of
      <code>M:\\</code>
      , you could set your builder working directory to
      <code>M:\\luntbuild</code>
      .
    </para>
    <para>
      To make things easier for you, a computed pseudo-property is
      available to you. You can make use of this via an OGNL expression
      within your builder's directory setting. For example, the
      following expression will retrieve the Clearcase working directory
      (see above):
      <code>
        ${build.vcsList[0].getClearcaseWorkDir(build.schedule)}
      </code>
      . Note that this assumes a single Vcs adapter setup, or at least
      one where your dynamic ClearCase definition is first in the list.
    </para>
    <para>
      Finally, a point of process. When using a Dynamic view, it is
      generally advisable to include a time rule in order to stabilize
      the contents of your dynamic view during the build process. If
      you're operating against
      <code>/main/LATEST</code>
      , the following makes a decent config spec:
      <code>/main/LATEST -nocheckout -time now</code>
      . Each time your view is "checked out," the view's config spec is
      reset, thus redefinining "now" to be the time at which the view's
      config spec was reset.
    </para>
  </section>
</section>
