<section><title>Setting Cvs connection information.</title>
<para>
	In order to use this adaptor, install appropriate Cvs client based on your platform from
	<ulink url="http://www.cvshome.org">http://www.cvshome.org</ulink> or
	<ulink url="http://www.cvsnt.org">http://www.cvsnt.org</ulink> if you are using Windows platform.
	</para><note><para>
	Please keep time of the build server machine in sync with the Cvs server machine
	to allow build server to detect repository changes in Cvs server more accurately.
	Please make sure that times recorded in the Cvs revision log are in UTC time format instead of local time format.
	</para></note>
    <para>
	Here is the list of properties for this adaptor:
    <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Cvs root</term>
        <listitem><para>
        The Cvs root for this project, for example, :pserver:administrator@localhost:d:/cvs_repository.
        If you are using ssh, the :ext: protocol will need to be specified, and proper ssh environment needs
        to be set outside of Luntbuild. Please refer to your Cvs User's Guide for details.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Cvs password</term>
        <listitem><para>
        The Cvs password for above Cvs root if connecting using pserver protocol.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Is cygwin cvs?</term>
        <listitem><para>
        This property indicates whether or not the cvs executable being used is a cygwin one.
        The possible values are "yes" or "no". When omitted, the "no" value is assumed.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Disable "-S" option?</term>
        <listitem><para>
        This property indicates whether or not the "-S" option for the log command should be disabled.
        The possible values are "yes" or "no". When omitted, the "no" value is assumed.
		The -S option used in the log command can speed up modification detection,
		however some earlier versions of Cvs do not support this option.
		In this case you should enter "yes" value to disable it.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Disable history command?</term>
        <listitem><para>
        This property indicates whether or not to disable the history command when performing modification detection.
        The possible values are "yes" or "no". When omitted, the "no" value is assumed.
		Using the history command in conjunction with the log command can speed up modification detection,
		however some Cvs repositories may not hold history information of commits.
		In this case you should enter "yes" value to disable it.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
		<term>Cvs executable path</term>
		<listitem><para>
		The directory path, where your cvs executable file resides in.
		It should be specified here, if it does not exist in the system path.
		</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
        <term>Quiet period</term>
        <listitem><para>
        Number of seconds the current VCS should be quiet (without checkins) before Luntbuild decides
        to check out the code of this VCS for a build. This is used to avoid checking out code
        in the middle of some other checkins. This property is optional.
        When left empty, quiet period will not be used before checking out code to build.
        </para></listitem>
        </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
</para>
</section>
